# Themes and Templates

The visual look and feel of the front end is described in theme files
while <a href="http://cheetahtemplate.org">Cheetah templates</a>
handle layout.

## Themes

Themes are stored in `/themes`.  Themes consist entirely of static
files (e.g. css, images and javascript) and templates.  The default or
active theme is linked from `/static/default` and `templates/default`.
If your theme needs to change anything other than these items, you'll
need a module (perhaps you'll need both).

There is not currently any support for dynamically choosing a theme at
runtime, but it is theoretically possible.

## Templates

Plinth uses the Cheetah templating system.  Templates are stored in
`/templates`.  Template requirements are not specified.

TODO: formalize the template spec so template writers know what they need to implement and where they can deviate.

In this section, I'll attempt to document some of the assumptions the
program has about templates.  The goal is that if you write a tempate
that implements the spec, it should work just fine.

### The Template Stack
The template is a hierarchical stack, where some templates extend on
others.  At the base of this stack is `base.tmpl`.  It should specify
variables as blocks (rather than using the $ notation).  This allows
other templates to easily override the base template.

Next up is the `page.tmpl`.  It extends `base.tmpl` and simply
replaces all the blocks with interpolable variables.  Most of the
time, `page.tmpl` is what you will actually use to create pages.

`err.tmpl` builds on top of `page.tmpl` by adding some decoration to
the title field.

### Layout

Plinth expects a `main` block.  This is where the
meat of the content goes.  It is the center pain in the default
layout.  There is a `title` block that the program will fill with text
describing the current page.  `sidebar_left` contains the submenu
navigation menu, and `sidebar_right` is where we put all short text
that helps the admin fill out forms.  They don't have to be sidebars,
and they don't have to go on the left and right.

It is possible to override the `footer`, but I haven't yet found a
reason to do so.

## Cheetah

This section is for Cheetah hints that are especially useful in this context.  

TODO: add Cheetah hints
