~-[[DebianWiki/EditorGuide#translation|Translation(s)]]: - English - [[es/FreedomBox/Manual/Bind|Español]] -~

<<TableOfContents()>>

## BEGIN_INCLUDE

== BIND (Domain Name Server) ==

BIND enables you to publish your Domain Name System (DNS) information on the Internet, and to resolve DNS queries for your user devices on your network.

Currently, on !FreedomBox, BIND is only used to resolve DNS queries for other machines on local network. It is also incompatible with sharing Internet connection from !FreedomBox.

Note: This service is available only on networks configured as "internal" zone. It is not available when connected via OpenVPN. 

=== Using BIND ===

When BIND is enabled, that does not automatically mean that anything is using it. The following can be configured:
 * !FreedomBox can be configured to use the local BIND service for its own DNS lookups.
 * Clients on the Local Area Network can be configured to use the !FreedomBox's BIND service for their DNS lookups.

The !FreedomBox can be set to use its own BIND service for DNS lookups through [[FreedomBox/Manual/Networks|Networks]]:
 1. Go to System page, and then select Networks.
 1. Select the "!FreedomBox WAN" connection and press Edit.
 1. Under "IPv4 Addressing Method", there is a field "DNS Server". Set it to {{{127.0.0.1}}}.
    /* TODO: Add IPv6 instructions. */
 1. Press "Edit Connection" at the bottom to save the changes.
 1. Restart the !FreedomBox from the user drop-down menu.

/* TODO: Add instructions for serving clients on LAN. */

=== External links ===

 * Upstream project: https://www.isc.org/bind/


## END_INCLUDE

Back to [[FreedomBox/Features|Features introduction]] or [[FreedomBox/Manual|manual]] pages.


<<Include(FreedomBox/Portal)>>

----
CategoryFreedomBox
