# language en

##TAG:TRANSLATION-HEADER-START
~- [[FreedomBox/Contribute|English]] - [[es/FreedomBox/Contribute|Español]] - [[DebianWiki/EditorGuide#translation|(+)]] -~
##TAG:TRANSLATION-HEADER-END
----

<<TableOfContents>>

## BEGIN_INCLUDE

= Get Involved =

From code, design and translation to spreading the word and donation, here are a number of ways to contribute to !FreedomBox.

== Quick Links ==

 * [[FreedomBox/Vision|Our vision]] explains what we want to achieve.
 * [[https://docs.freedombox.org/|FreedomBox Developer Manual]]
 * [[FreedomBox/ProgressCalls|Progress calls]]
 * [[FreedomBox/TODO|TODO page]]
 * [[https://www.freedomboxfoundation.org/donate/|Donation page]]

== Welcome to newcomers ==

As a new contributor, you are more than welcome to introduce yourself to others on the !FreedomBox [[https://discuss.freedombox.org/c/development|discussion forum]], [[http://lists.alioth.debian.org/mailman/listinfo/freedombox-discuss|mailing list]] or on the [[irc://irc.debian.org/freedombox|#freedombox IRC]] channel. In addition to make useful contacts, you can start reporting bugs and translate (see below) the wiki website and the !FreedomBox web interface. 


= Contributions needed =

Sorted by ascending difficulty

== Donate ==

Obviously, donating is the easiest way to contribute.

You can help the project financially by donating via !PayPal, Bitcoin or by mailing a check. Please see the [[https://www.freedomboxfoundation.org/donate/|donation page]] for details on how to donate.

!FreedomBox project is run by volunteers. The [[https://freedomboxfoundation.org|FreedomBox Foundation]] is a 501(c)(3) federal nonprofit corporation with recognition from the IRS.


== Spread the Word ==

Spreading the word about !FreedomBox only requires to know about the basic goals of the project and an overall description of the product.

Speak to your family, friends, local community or at global conferences about the importance of !FreedomBox. To be a successful project we need much more awareness and many more participants, be it users or contributors. Write about your efforts on the [[FreedomBox/TalksAndPresentations|wiki]].

If you are into marketing, you can get in touch with the marketing team through the [[https://discuss.freedombox.org/c/community/marketing/14|marketing section of our forum]].


== Feed Us Back (Comment) ==

After some time, we lose the fresh view of newcomers. Just providing your feedback helps us a lot.

Browse our websites and documentation and play with !FreedomBox and comment your impressions on the [[https://discuss.freedombox.org/c/feedback/2|feedback section of our forum]]. 


== Request applications ==

Check our [[https://wiki.debian.org/FreedomBox/LeavingTheCloud|applications wishlist]] and help us extend it by searching the web for other interesting free software to include in !FreedomBox.


== Translate ==

All text visible to users of !FreedomBox needs to be localized to various languages. If you know english and speak another language you can contribute translating. Translating is a nice way to get familiar with the project while contributing.

This translation work includes:

 * [[FreedomBox/Plinth|Web Interface]] of !FreedomBox
 * !FreedomBox documentation, including the !FreedomBox [[FreedomBox|wiki]]
 * !FreedomBox [[https://freedombox.org|website]] and [[https://freedomboxfoundation.org|foundation website]].
 * [[https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/internals/contributing/localizing/|Django web framework]] that !FreedomBox uses.
 * Individual [[https://wiki.debian.org/FreedomBox/Manual/#Apps|applications]] that !FreedomBox exposes to users.

The localization of !FreedomBox web interface happens mainly on the web-based tool at [[https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/freedombox/|Weblate]].

If you wish to see !FreedomBox available for one of your languages, please start a discussion on the !FreedomBox discussion forum's [[https://discuss.freedombox.org/c/development|development category]] to work with others translating for that language.

For more information, please visit the !FreedomBox [[FreedomBox/Translate|translators]] page.


== Document: User Manual, Website and Wiki, HowTo/demo videos ==

!FreedomBox needs better documentation for users and contributors. Sometimes, just rewording or presenting the information another way, already helps. Others, a certain knowledge is needed.

!FreedomBox manual is prepared by aggregating various pages on the wiki and exporting to various formats. The manual is then used in !FreedomBox Service and elsewhere.

If you wish to contribute to the !FreedomBox [[FreedomBox|wiki]] (and consequently the !FreedomBox manual), you can create a wiki account and start editing.

For contributing to the website please start a discussion on the !FreedomBox discussion forum's [[https://discuss.freedombox.org/c/development|development category]].

Another way of documenting !FreedomBox is to record and publish screencasts showing how to use it, or videos on why to use it. Like [[https://peertube.debian.social/search?search=freedombox&searchTarget=local|these]] or [[https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=freedombox|these]].

== Assure Quality (Test and Check) ==

 * !FreedomBox already runs on many platforms and it is not possible for developers to test all possible platforms.  If you have one of the supported hardware you can help with testing !FreedomBox on the platform.

 * When an application is made available on !FreedomBox, not all of its functionality is tested in the real world by developer doing the work. Deploying the application and testing it will help ensure high quality applications in !FreedomBox.

See the [[FreedomBox/QualityAssurance|quality assurance]] page for a basic list of test cases to check for and information on reporting bugs.


== Code ==

If you are a developer, you can contribute code to one of the sub-projects of !FreedomBox.  Step-by-step process of [[/Code|contributing code]] to !FreedomBox is available.

 * [[FreedomBox/Plinth|FreedomBox Service]]: a web interface to administer the functions of !FreedomBox.
 * [[FreedomBox/Maker|Freedom Maker]]: a script to build !FreedomBox disk images for use on various hardware devices or virtual machines.

You can pick up a task from one of the [[FreedomBox/TODO|TODO]] lists. The individual page project pages contain information availabily of the code, how to build and TODO lists.

=== Fix Bugs ===

List of bugs, feature requests and improvements are tracked on the !FreedomBox [[https://salsa.debian.org/freedombox-team/freedombox/issues/|issue tracker]].  In addition to that, see [[FreedomBox/Contribute/Bugs|list of bugs]] to help out the Debian package we depend on. Also see the !FreedomBox [[https://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=freedombox-pkg-team%40lists.alioth.debian.org&comaint=yes|packaging team's dashboard]] for status of various packages that we use.

=== Add an Application ===

If you are a developer and wish to see an application available in !FreedomBox, you can contribute by adding the application to !FreedomBox.  See the [[https://docs.freedombox.org/|FreedomBox Developer Manual]]. Many applications that can be added to !FreedomBox have been identified on the [[FreedomBox/LeavingTheCloud|leaving the cloud]] page.

=== Development priorities ===

Upcoming priorities are discussed on an regular basis. You find the progress of the !FreedomBox Service with its priorities here: [[https://salsa.debian.org/groups/freedombox-team/-/boards|issues board]] and [[https://salsa.debian.org/groups/freedombox-team/-/milestones|milestones]].

Please check next [[FreedomBox/ProgressCalls|progress calls]] to keep yourself on track and meet members of the release team. A [[FreedomBox/TODO|TODO page]] aggregates the complete list of the items to work on for !FreedomBox. 

== Design ==

=== User Experience Design ===

If you are a user experience designer, you can help !FreedomBox with the following items:

 * UI experience for the !FreedomBox Service web interface
 * Web design for [[https://freedombox.org|freedombox.org]], [[https://freedomboxfoundation.org|freedomboxfoundation.org]] and the [[FreedomBox|wiki]] pages
 * Logo and branding (we currently have [[https://salsa.debian.org/freedombox-team/freedombox/tree/main/static/themes/default|an identity manual and logos]])
 * Possible designs for custom !FreedomBox cases on single board computers
 * [[../Design|User experience design]]

=== Technical Design ===

!FreedomBox needs your technical expertise to devise implementation plans for upcoming features. You can contribute to the discussion on various technical design and implementation aspects of !FreedomBox. See !FreedomBox discussion forum's [[https://discuss.freedombox.org/c/development|development category]].


== Package Applications ==

!FreedomBox is a Debian Pure Blend. In order to add applications to !FreedomBox we need applications first to be Debian-packaged. Check our [[https://wiki.debian.org/FreedomBox/LeavingTheCloud|applications wishlist]].



## END_INCLUDE

<<Include(FreedomBox/Portal)>>

----
CategoryFreedomBox
