<<TableOfContents(3)>>

## BEGIN_INCLUDE

!FreedomBox is built on the Debian operating system. Approximately every two years, there is a new stable Debian release. !FreedomBox provides the option of [[FreedomBox/Manual/Upgrades#Auto-Update_to_Next_Stable_Release|automatically handling the upgrade]] to the new version of Debian after it is released. A distribution update will bring in major features and changes. Sometimes, old features will stop working. This page documents the expected changes and transitions during a distribution upgrade. If you dislike these changes, you can keep each distribution for at least [[LTS|5 years]] before updating.

The current stable release is Debian 12 "bookworm". It was released on June 10, 2023. Below are additional considerations to have in mind when upgrading to a new release of Debian.

== Debian 13 "trixie" ==

Estimated release date is around August 2025.

=== TT-RSS no longer supported ===

The [[DebianPts:tt-rss]] package has been removed from the next Debian release. It is recommended to move to one of the following options as a replacement:
 * [[FreedomBox/Manual/Miniflux|Miniflux]]
 * [[FreedomBox/Manual/Nextcloud|Nextcloud News]]

=== Searx app no longer supported ===

The [[DebianPts:searx]] package has been removed from the next Debian release. There is currently no replacement for Searx app in !FreedomBox. Searx app will no longer received security updates, so it is recommended to stop using the app, and to uninstall it.

## END_INCLUDE

<<Include(FreedomBox/Portal)>>

----
CategoryFreedomBox
