== Freedom Maker ==

Freedom Maker is a script to build !FreedomBox disk images for use on various hardware devices or virtual machines.

Freedom Maker can currently build !FreedomBox disk images for the following:
 * [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OLinuXino#A20-OlinuXino-LIME|A20-OlinuXino-LIME]]
 * [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OLinuXino#A20-OlinuXino-LIME2|A20-OlinuXino-LIME2]]
 * [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OLinuXino#A20-OLinuXino-MICRO|A20-OLinuXino-MICRO]]
 * [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banana_Pro|Banana Pro]]
 * [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BeagleBoard#BeagleBone|BeagleBone]]
 * [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cubieboard#Cubieboard2|Cubieboard2]]
 * [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cubieboard#Cubietruck_.28Cubieboard3.29|Cubietruck]]
 * [[http://www.linksprite.com/linksprite-pcduino3/|pcDuino3]]
 * [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi|Raspberry Pi 2]]
 * [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi|Raspberry Pi 3 Model B]]
 * [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi|Raspberry Pi 3 Model B+]]
 * [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VirtualBox|VirtualBox]]
 * [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QEMU|QEMU]]
 * [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64#AMD64|AMD64 (x86-64) Machines]], [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86|X86 Machines]] and other virtual machines (using raw disk images)

If a hardware platform is capable of running Debian, it should not be too much effort adopt Freedom Maker to create !FreedomBox images for the platform.

Freedom Maker is [[https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/|Free Software]] licensed under [[https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html|GNU General Public License]] version 3 or (at your option) a later version.

=== Building FreedomBox Images ===

 * You can get Freedom Maker from its [[https://salsa.debian.org/freedombox-team/freedom-maker.git|Git repository]] and follow the instructions in the README to [[https://salsa.debian.org/freedombox-team/freedom-maker/blob/main/README.md|build a FreedomBox image]].

=== Support ===

You may ask for support on

 * [[https://discuss.freedombox.org/|The discussion forum]]

 * [[http://lists.alioth.debian.org/mailman/listinfo/freedombox-discuss|The mailing list]]

 * [[irc://irc.debian.org/freedombox|#freedombox IRC channel]]

 * [[https://matrix.to/#/#freedombox:matrix.org|FreedomBox Matrix channel]]

=== Contributing ===

We are looking for help to improve Freedom Maker.

 * Instructions on how to [[FreedomBox/Contribute/Code|contribute code]] are available.

 * Freedom Maker is hosted at [[https://salsa.debian.org/freedombox-team/freedom-maker|FreedomBox Salsa Project]]. The primary Git repository is hosted [[https://salsa.debian.org/freedombox-team/freedom-maker.git|there]].

 * You can contribute to !FreedomBox by adding support for more hardware platforms.  Freedom Maker can be easily adopted to newer platforms if they already support running Debian.

 * You can create and test images with Freedom Maker regularly to test for new features and check for regressions.

 * List of bugs, TODO items and feature requests are available on the [[https://salsa.debian.org/freedombox-team/freedom-maker/issues|issue tracker]].

 * You can request for development assistance on [[https://discuss.freedombox.org/|the discussion forum]], [[http://lists.alioth.debian.org/mailman/listinfo/freedombox-discuss|the mailing list]] or the [[irc://irc.debian.org/freedombox|#freedombox IRC channel]].

## END_INCLUDE

<<Include(FreedomBox/Portal)>>

----
CategoryFreedomBox
