#language en

~- [[DebianWiki/EditorGuide#translation|Translation(s)]]: English - [[es/FreedomBox/Manual/PageKite|Español]] -~

<<TableOfContents()>>

## BEGIN_INCLUDE

== PageKite (Public Visibility) ==

=== What is PageKite? ===

!PageKite makes local websites and services publicly accessible immediately without creating yourself a public IP address. It does this by tunneling protocols such as HTTPS or SSH through firewalls and NAT. Using !PageKite requires an account on a !PageKite relay service. One such service is https://pagekite.net.

A !PageKite relay service will allow you to create kites. Kites are similar to domain names, but with different advantages and drawbacks. A kite can have a number of configured services. !PageKite is known to work with HTTP, HTTPS, and SSH, and may work with some other services, but not all.

=== Using PageKite ===

 1. Create an account on a !PageKite relay service.
 1. Add a kite to your account. Note your kite name and kite secret.
 1. In !FreedomBox, go to the "Configure !PageKite" tab on the Public Visibility (!PageKite) page.
 1. Check the "Enable !PageKite" box, then enter your kite name and kite secret. Click "Save settings".
 1. On the "Standard Services" tab, you can enable HTTP and HTTPS (recommended) and SSH (optional).
    * HTTP is needed to obtain the Let's Encrypt certificate. You can disable it later.
 1. On the [[FreedomBox/Manual/LetsEncrypt|Certificates (Let's Encrypt)]] page, you can obtain a Let's Encrypt certificate for your kite name.

## END_INCLUDE

Back to [[FreedomBox/Features|Features introduction]] or [[FreedomBox/Manual|manual]] pages.

<<Include(FreedomBox/Portal)>>

----
CategoryFreedomBox
